I got an email that said:
"do you want to come and see
an amphibious weed-cutting boat?"
Yes!
DEBBIE McNAMARA: It's an amphibian boat,
so it can work in shallow waters,
because it's tracked.
JAMES DILNOT: On the front
it has scissor cutters,
and as it goes along,
the T-cutter on the front
cuts the bottom of the river
and the weed lifts up
and flows down stream.
JD: We've got a tree in the river,
we're just going to
pull it up onto the bank with the tractor
winch in a minute.
There's probably in excess
of 15 tonne of weed
actually matted up and behind it.
When that tree gets released,
and the weed starts to flow down,
he can break the weed up, and then
take it out at the weed tie
further downstream.
DM: The weed will then carry on
down the watercourse,
and it'll get caught at
what we call a weed tie.
So we put in two deflectors in the water,
they're like two barriers, and then we've
got an excavator
that will lift the weed
out of the watercourse
and put it on the bank.
(LAUGHS)
Eels are a protected species,
and we do our best
to not harm them.
And we have to make sure that
when we remove the weed,
we do it very carefully.
And we have a set method
of removing the weed
so as to allow the eels
to carry on going down the watercourse.
JD: Along here it's what we call a W2A cut,
it's an 80-20.
80% comes out, 20% gets left in.
Where the water flow goes through,
it rips the weed
out the bottom of the river,
and that'll take it down
through the centre of Canterbury,
into the sluice gates there.
And it could potentially
cause an obstruction there
and take out quite a few houses.
DM: Because if tunnels and culverts
block completely,
then the water will back up,
flood properties,
flood businesses,
and we'll have huge problems.
TOM SCOTT: Thank you very much to the
Environment Agency for showing me around.
If you've got something
similarly odd in your company
or your organisation, let me know!
I want to film it and I'm fairly sure
my audience want to see it.
And now, GoPro footage of
chainsawing a log,
and raking some weed
to make sure it's free of eels.
That is a really weird sentence.
[Translating these subtitles? Add your name here!]